[Music]
you know once upon a time i spotted a
tiny groove on the bottom of my favorite
coffee mug
was it broken no it looked as if it had
been made that way
and that's how this crazy obsession
started after googling this question
i discovered that tons of things i used
every day without thinking twice
were equipped with tiny gizmos i'd never
noticed
and here are 18 discoveries that impress
me the most
number one brushes on escalator sides
um no they're not for polishing your
shoes in fact
these brushes serve an important safety
purpose you might have heard that most
accidents happen when people
get their bags or clothes stuck in
escalators because they stand too close
to the sides
but when there are nylon brushes on both
sides
you can't help but keep your feet away
from the escalator skirt panels
the result no accidents
[Music]
number two 57 on heinz ketchup bottles
i was dumbstruck when i found out that
the number 57
on a heinz ketchup bottle had nothing to
do with the product label the truth is
that the place with the numbers
is the sweet spot you should tap to get
the ketchup flowing
so stop banging the bottom of your sauce
bottle already
and hit the 57. number three
pom-poms on beanies now aren't pom-poms
attached to beanies to add an
extra touch of cuteness apparently not
french sailors were the ones who
invented this style and pom-poms
actually served a very practical purpose
they prevented the sailors from hitting
their heads against the ship's low
ceilings
later the pompom design was adapted by
army troops
and that's how they ended up decorating
our beanies
number four slots on measuring tape
you probably noticed that on the end of
almost any measuring tape
there's a metal stub with a small slot
if one of your hands is occupied
you can use this slot to hook your
measuring tape over a nail head
and continue your calculations the tape
will stay in place
also the stub is often serrated on one
side
so that you can make marks without
having to use a pencil
number five grooves on toothpicks or
groovy toothpicks take your pick
while i was doing my google research i
also found out that i'd been using
toothpicks
the wrong way now i'm talking about
toothpicks with grooves at the flat end
if you don't have anywhere to put such a
toothpick after using it well
snap off the flat end at the first
groove and put it on the table
now you can balance the used portion of
your toothpick on the grooved part
so it doesn't have to touch the table
number six grooves on cup bottoms
wow it turns out that a little groove on
a cup or mug bottom
serves several purposes first of all it
lets cool air flow beneath the cup
it saves your favorite coffee mug from
cracking when it gets heated up from the
hot beverage
what's more when you wash cups placed
upside down in the dishwasher
the grooves make sure that water doesn't
stagnate in the cup bottoms
and spill all over your feet when you
take the cups out
how thoughtful number seven holes in
soda pop tabs
what could be simpler than a can of soda
ah don't be so sure
the thing has its own secrets for
example
pay attention to the tab you pull on to
open your beverage
do you see a reasonably large hole in
the middle well let me
introduce a designated placeholder for
your straw
the only thing you need to do is to spin
the tab around
so that it's over the can opening and
push your straw through it
now who would have thought number eight
little dot near the iphone camera
despite what most people think the tiny
dot next to the camera on an iphone
is not the flash brace yourself it's one
of the three
microphones that starts recording once
you switch on your back camera
it also helps eliminate background
noises when you're recording videos in
crowded places
number nine holes on gas cans
you might have wondered why most gas
cans have two holes with caps
one bigger and one smaller before i
thought the little hole was used when
you pour something into a smaller
container
but i was wrong in reality you're
supposed to uncap
it before you pour the gas inside the
bigger hole to prevent it from glugging
and spilling on your clothes and the
ground
number 10 holes in pen caps
honestly i used to think that this
little hole in the caps of most
pens is just an offbeat way to keep the
ink flowing
but no apparently pen manufacturers know
more about little kids than you can
imagine for example
they realize that one day a child might
end up choking on the innocent looking
pen cap
and to prevent the little ones from
suffocating they started to place
holes in pen caps so that even if one
gets stuck in a child's throat
the air can still get into their lungs
number 11 child proof prescription
bottles
ever got super frustrated when trying to
open one of those child proof
prescription bottles
then you'll understand my relief after i
found that there's an easier way
if you don't have small kids around turn
the lid on the bottle
upside down and there you go it's no
longer child proof
number 12 the ridges on f and j
the small ridges on letters f and j on
your keyboard
are made so that you can type without
looking down at the keyboard
this way you'll always know the initial
position of your index fingers
and after that it's all about your
muscle memory
too bad my muscles are so forgetful
number 13
hole in a padlock bottom this tiny hole
has a very important task
it helps to drain water from the outdoor
lock after the rain
which prevents the thing from rusting
and clogging on top of that
you can also use this hole to oil the
lock's hinges
so that it doesn't get stuck you should
also remember that if a lock doesn't
have this small hole
you should only use it inside
number 14 the gas gauge arrow
next time you drive your car pay
attention to the little arrow next to
the fuel tank sign on the gas gauge
the direction it points in isn't random
the arrow shows the side of the car
where your fuel tank is
believe me you'll see the true value of
this feature
as soon as you rent a car and drive it
to the gas station
number 15 fabric squares that come with
clothes
now it puzzled me to no end that every
time i bought a new shirt or a pair of
pants
i found an attached ziploc baggie that
contained a tiny piece of matching
fabric
and a button sewn on it well the purpose
of the extra button is pretty clear
but what's with the fabric the shocking
truth is that you're supposed to try out
your cleaning products
on this piece of fabric first so you
don't ruin the whole thing when you
decide to wash it
number 16 plastic lids at first sight
everything is obvious about plastic lids
on disposable cups
they keep your beverage inside right but
that's not all they're capable of
as soon as you find a cozy spot and get
ready to sip on your drink
you can use the lid as a coaster if you
look attentively
you'll notice special ridges that snugly
hug the bottom of your cup
each lid size fits the corresponding
cups bottom
number 17 notebook margins
well i have to admit that this fact left
me outright
flabbergasted it appears that originally
margins weren't created for making
additional notes
they used to protect your work from rats
in those times rats were common
residents in people's homes
and they loved to snack on paper that's
why by leaving margins wide
manufacturers safeguarded the writing on
the outer edges
ah rats number 18 side holes and
converse sneakers
now i have a confession to make i'm an
avid sneaker collector
but even though i have tons of converse
all-stars i can never figure out the
purpose of the two
extra holes located on the side next to
the sole
i mean i read somewhere that they were
for additional
airflow but seriously two tiny holes
it turned out i was right in my
skepticism and the holes are actually
for laces
since sneakers were originally invented
for basketball players
this interesting design allowed them to
accommodate
any player's foot they just needed to
lace their sneakers in a way
that was most comfortable for them so
there you have it pretty particular
purposes for puny parts of personal
possessions
hey how about you do you know any other
things with hidden purposes
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey don't
go pondering the puny parts of your
personal possessions just yet
we have over 2000 cool videos for you to
check out
all you have to do is pick the left or
right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life